---
layout: page
title: "It all begins with a &ldquo;zombie apocalypse&rdquo;"
date: 2016-04-03
categories: other
---

I spent around 20 hours setting up this blog --- choosing fonts, tuning layout,
making it generally convenient to use on mobile devices. After a couple years
without writing a single line of `HTML` or `CSS` I had some hard time catching
up with recent advances in frontend engineering. Don't get me wrong I didn't
spent this time in a cave, but still it's fascinating how far we went in terms
of engineering practices. Frankly speaking, at hour 15 I started asking myself
why I even bother setting up my own blog from scratch while I could just sign up
at [Medium](https://medium.com) which, on top, provides a formidable reader base
from the get go. Well, the answer to this question in my case is "zombie
apocalypse".

Not literally, of course. I don't believe in living dead haunting humans.
"Preparing for the zombie apocalypse" is my term for _getting a deep
understanding of how things work_. I'm not sure why, though. The point is I find
it extremely valuable to identify and fill the gaps in one's knowledge by
thinking and observing or --- which is even better --- by practicing.
Understanding is a non-linear process. Usually breakthroughs happen after quite
some time without any visible progress, and often all that is needed for the
idea to really start sinking in is to get an adequate context and/or
interpretation.

My current plan for this blog is to dedicate it to reporting these
_aha!_--moments with an emphasis on reasoning and interpretation whenever
possible. Journey is as important to me as the final destination. Main topics
probably will be _programming, math and productivity_, but not necessarily
limited to these.

Writing doesn't come easy to me, but this seems like an interesting experiment.
Let's see how it goes.
