---
title: Constraints liberate
category: other
---

What is a team? By a simplistic definition:

> A team is a group of people linked in a common purpose.

However having a _purpose_ is not enough, and I would argue that a team needs
something more tangible to work on. That is a team needs a specific _goal_. The
difference between the two can be illustrated by the following example.

The _purpose_ of every knowledge worker is to make his company prosper, whether
this is a development team, or support, or marketing. But you cannot just gather
a bunch of smart people, tell them to deliver and expect great results. Probably
all you will get is paralysis or chaotic movement in million different
directions without any significant results or breakthroughs. People won't be
able to deliver at their highest because there is too much ambiguity, too many
choices to make and essentially, I would say, too much freedom.

On contrary when a team is given a specific problem, with necessary context and
success criteria provided, they are much likely to succeed and deliver something
amazing. A problem not necessarily should be small or very specific. It might be
something with a focus on the end result or with a focus on the journey itself.

And the difference between these two is presence of **constraints**. There is an
old saying that _constraints liberate_ which is supported by some recent
research on the subject. The main idea is that there is a direct relationship
between creativity and the presence of constraints, whether it's time,
resources, formal boundaries, etc. More eloquently

> “...the imagination is unleashed by constraints. You break out of the box by
> stepping into shackles.” ― Jonah Lehrer, Imagine: How Creativity Works

A context attached to the problem is just another form of constraining. You're
making your situation more specific and thus the solution the you need to come
up with should not be applicable in every possible situation, but just the one
you have at hand.

So what is a success criteria then?

war is peace, freedom is slavery, ignorance is strength (INGSOC)
